feat(blog): "Announcing: Batch Keys" (#869)
inngest/website: pages/blog/_posts/announcing-batch-keys.mdx

---
heading: "Announcing: Batch Keys"
image: /assets/blog/announcing-batch-keys/featured-image.png
showSubtitle: true
subtitle: Batch keys allows developers to group work units by leveraging Inngest's efficient event-matching engine.
date: 2024-07-25
author: Charly Poly
disableCTA: false
---

We are thrilled to release Batch Keys, a powerful addition to _Event Batching_. This new feature allows developers to group work units by leveraging [Inngest's efficient event-matching engine](https://www.inngest.com/blog/accidentally-quadratic-evaluating-trillions-of-event-matches-in-real-time), unlocking new advanced use cases such as Batch User Notifications or more efficient processing of large volumes of events.

[*Event Batching*](https://www.inngest.com/docs/guides/batching), released a few months ago, has been widely adopted by developers and teams using Inngest to build highly scalable features such as ETL, notification systems, and third-party integrations. This feature enabled applications dealing with considerable throughput of events to group similar events in batches to create aggregates, reducing the number of requests to third-party APIs.

> ![Without and with Event Batching](/assets/blog/announcing-batch-keys/batch-keys-1.jpg)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![Diagram comparing event processing without and with event batching. Without event batching: multiple function runs trigger the external API, causing a "429 Too Many Requests" error. With event batching: events are grouped into a single function run, successfully sending one request to the external API, resulting in a "200 OK" response.](/assets/blog/announcing-batch-keys/batch-keys-1.jpg)
```

Let's make alt text descriptive (when it's not ornamental).

> Developers quickly started to apply *Event Batching* to product-oriented use cases, such as “Grouping similar notifications”, resulting in added complexity in the Functions' body to partition the group events based on event properties, for example, when sending post likes notifications:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Developers quickly started to apply *Event Batching* to product-oriented use cases, such as grouping similar notifications. This resulted in added complexity in the functions' body to partition group events based on event properties. For example, when sending post likes notifications:
```

Splitting into three sentences for readability

Reviewer: Side note: to me, the beginning of this paragraph signals something good (quick adoption!) but the overall meaning of the paragraph is about the tension that arose.

Maybe rephrasing it further to clearly signal the "curse in disguise" would make sense? Something like:

```suggestion
We were delighted that *Event Batching* gained such an enthusiastic adoption. However, we noticed that developers applied it also to product-oriented use cases, such as grouping similar notifications. This resulted in added complexity in the function body to partition group events based on event properties. For example, sending post likes notifications would look as follows:
```

```tsx
export const sendPostLikesNotifications = inngest.createFunction(
  {
    id: "send-post-likes-notification",
    batchEvents: {
      maxSize: 100, // let's group up to 100 post likes
      timeout: "60s", // we want to group likes from the same 1min window
    },
  },
  { event: "post.liked" },
  async ({ events }) => {
    // let's count the number of likes per post
    const likes: Record<string, number> = events.reduce(
      (acc, event) => {
        if (!acc[event.data.post_id]) {
          acc[event.data.post_id] = 1;
        } else {
          acc[event.data.post_id] += 1;
        }
        return acc;
      },
      {} as Record<string, number>,
    );

    for (let [postId, likesCount] of Object.entries(likes)) {
	    await notifyPostLikesCount(postId, likesCount);
    }
  },
);
```

The above implementation comes with multiple drawbacks:

> - **Fairness issues:** By batching by events, a post getting significantly more likes than others will benefit from a better grouping, impacting the end-user experience.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Fairness issues:** By batching events, a post getting significantly more likes than others will benefit from a better grouping, impacting the end-user experience.
```

I think it's a typo?

Author: It is intentional, in comparison to Batching by event properties (with `keys`)

Reviewer: gotcha! Do you think a clarification (grammatical or contextual) could work?

```suggestion
- **Fairness issues:** When batching by events, a post getting significantly more likes than others will benefit from a better grouping, impacting the end-user experience.
```

or:

```suggestion
- **Fairness issues:** By batching by events (and not by event properties), a post getting significantly more likes than others will benefit from a better grouping, impacting the end-user experience.
```

It might be a "me" thing so I'll file this as a nit :)

> The above implementation comes with multiple drawbacks:

Author: ```suggestion
The above implementation comes with some drawbacks:
```

- **Reliability:** Introducing custom logic to cope with event partitioning makes it harder to retry or replay batches based on specific users.
- **Developer Experience:** The regrouping of events makes the code harder to read and maintain.

> Based on these observations and following multiple community requests, we introduce *Batch keys* to improve the *Event Batching* experience.

Reviewer: How about:

```suggestion
In response to community feedback, we are excited to introduce Batch Keys to enhance the Event Batching experience.
```

Or:

```suggestion
Having observed this pattern, we are excited to introduce *Batch Keys* to provide a better tool tailored to our community's use cases.
```

Or:
```suggestion
We design our features in response to your feedback, and with deep commitment to Developer Experience. With this in mind, we are excited to introduce *Batch Keys* to provide a better tool tailored to our community's various use cases.
```

## Introducing Batch Keys

Batch Keys, introduced with the [new `batchEvents.key` option](https://www.inngest.com/docs/reference/functions/create#batchEvents), enables developers to configure how the batches are composed by leveraging event properties.

See below our updated “sending post likes notifications” example. Now, batching events by `post_id`:

```tsx
export const sendPostLikesNotifications = inngest.createFunction(
  {
    id: "send-post-likes-notification",
    batchEvents: {
      maxSize: 100,
      timeout: "60s",
      key: "event.data.post_id",
    },
  },
  { event: "post.liked" },
  async ({ events }) => {
    await notifyPostLikesCount(events[0].data.post_id, events.length);
  },
);
```

The `sendPostLikesNotifications()` is now called with post-specific batches, as displayed below:

> ![Event Batching vs. Event Batching with keys](/assets/blog/announcing-batch-keys/batch-keys-2.jpg)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![Diagram comparing event batching without and with a key. Without a key: all events (post.liked) are grouped into a single function run, regardless of the post ID. With a key: events are grouped into separate function runs based on the post ID, ensuring events with different post IDs are processed separately.](/assets/blog/announcing-batch-keys/batch-keys-2.jpg)
```

Developers can now rely on Inngest to compose batches that better match their product needs, removing the need for custom logic and the risks of fairness issues.

> Batch keys is a unique feature that tackles complex use cases while improving the developer experience. Take a [look and participate in our roadmap](https://roadmap.inngest.com/roadmap?ref=footer) as we continue to push the limits of Inngest's Flow Control capabilities!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Batch Keys is a unique feature that tackles complex use cases while improving the developer experience. Take a [look and participate in our roadmap](https://roadmap.inngest.com/roadmap?ref=footer) as we continue to push the limits of Inngest's Flow Control capabilities!
```

for consistency

> Developers can now rely on Inngest to compose batches that better match their product needs, removing the need for custom logic and the risks of fairness issues.

Reviewer: How about:

```suggestion
With Inngest's enhanced batch composition, it's now easier than ever to create batches that match your product needs perfectly. No need for custom logic, no fairness issues.
```

Or:

```suggestion
With enhanced batch composition, you can now create batches that perfectly match your product needs. No custom logic, no fairness issues. Keep building great features with confidence.
```
